---
output: 
  html_document:
    theme: flatly
---



## Data Compilation

The datasets used in this project are not exhaustive of all manufacturing data available. This tool has the capability to morph over time as more relevant and updated datasets become available and as the scope of SCP’s research alters. The datasets included in this preliminary version of the tool (i.e., FRS, TRI, CERS, and EIS) were selected because they are easily downloadable and publicly available and contain the following information:

 * Coordinate-specific facility locations;
 * NAICS or SIC codes to identify manufacturers from other facilities; and
 * Machine-readable files such as .csv or .xlsx.
 
## Data Analysis

Once compiled, we analyzed and cleaned up the manufacturing datasets in RStudio to represent only information pertinent to the goal of the project. First, we filtered all manufacturing data to only include facilities located in California. Then we created a list of manufacturing industry classification codes. These included NAICS codes beginning with 31, 32, and 33 and SIC codes between 20-39. We analyzed the list of manufacturing NAICS and SIC codes to determine which industry descriptions are not relevant to consumer products. 

Some facilities have multiple lines of business and, accordingly, report to environmental programs with multiple NAICS or SIC codes. In our analysis, we prioritized reported primary NAICS codes, codes that indicate a company’s primary line of business, over reported primary SIC codes because NAICS were created more recently. In other words, if a facility had both NAICS and SIC codes, we used the NAICS code to determine product categories. If a facility did not have NAICS data, then we used the SIC code. If a facility did not have any NAICS or SIC codes, it was not included in the master list because it was impossible to identify the facility’s business activity. Some facilities are mapped more than once in the tool if multiple reported NAICS codes align with differentiating product categories. 

Once confined to manufacturing activities within scope of the project, the datasets were merged to form one master facility list. This list was analyzed for duplicates using a unique identifier, the FRS ID number. Some facilities did not contain latitude and longitude coordinates. We geocoded coordinates from addresses to plot these locations on a map. 

Limited data from CERS, CDR, and TRI datasets pertained to chemical information. This reported information was used to assess whether Candidate Chemicals are used or generated by manufacturers of interest during their operations. We subset all mentions of “fluoro” in the chemical name, and manually considered each chemical. Depending on the chemical structure, we classified such chemicals as PFAS, non-PFAS, or possible PFAS (depending on the definition).

We assigned product categories to facilities based on reported NAICS and SIC codes. This process involved breaking individual NAICS and SIC codes into code description groups based on the first 3 digits of the code. This created larger groups of NAICS and SIC descriptions to more easily assign product categories. We determined product categories based on past and present SCP Priority Product Work Plans and created a few new product categories. 

## Git Hub

*coming soon*
